Q1. **Programming Paradigms**

Q1.a. Which of the following is **not** an example of a programming paradigm?

(X) JavaScript
( ) Declarative
( ) Imperative
( ) Functional
( ) Object-oriented

Q1.b.
Which of the following characteristics are typical of imperative programs.

( ) values of variables may change or "mutate" (they are **mutable**)
( ) program execution proceeds by carrying out a sequence of instructions
( ) functions often have **side-effects**
(X) all of the above

Q1.c.
Which of the following characteristics are typical of functional programs.

( ) values of variables do not change or "mutate" (they are **immutable**)
( ) functions are **referentially transparent**
( ) functions do not have **side-effects**
(X) all of the above

Q1.d. The programming paradigms of Scala are which of these? (Select the *two* correct options.)

[ ] assembly
[ ] declarative
[ ] imperative
[X] functional
[X] object-oriented

Q2. Higher-order functions

Q2.a. A **higher-order function** is a function that

( ) can be passed as an argument to other functions
( ) can be returned as output by other functions
( ) can be called a higher order of times than ordinary, "lower-order" functions
(X) accepts a function (or functions) as input or returns a function (or functions) as output.
( ) takes a higher order of magnitude of time to return a value than ordinary, "lower-order" functions


Q2.b. In the code below, identify the two functions that are *higher-order* functions. (Select the two correct options.)

```scala
val my_list = List(1,2,3)

my_list.filter(x => x > 2).map(x => x * x)
```

[ ] `List`
[X] `filter`
[ ] `x => x > 2`
[ ] `x => x * x`
[X] `map`


Q2.c. In the code below, identify the two functions that are *anonymous* functions. (Select the two correct options.)

```scala
val my_list = List(1,2,3)

my_list.filter(x => x > 2).map(x => x * x)
```

[ ] `List`
[ ] `filter`
[X] `x => x > 2`
[X] `x => x * x`
[ ] `map`



Q3. Referential Transparency

Q3.a. An expression `e` is called **referentially transparent** provided

( ) the value of `e`, when it is reduced to "normal form," is obvious or "transparent."
( ) the values all expressions to which `e` refers are obvious or "transparent."
(X) for all programs `p`, all occurrences of `e` in `p` can be replaced by the result of evaluating `e` without affecting the meaning of `p`.
( ) none of the above

Q3.b. In the following code,  which is part of a larger program, is the function `g` *referentially transparent*?

```scala
def g(x: Int, y: Int) = x + y
```

(X) Yes
( ) No

[[For a given pair of input values, we know what the output of `g` will be.]]

Q3.c. In the following code, which is part of a larger program, is the function `f` *referentially transparent*?

```scala
var y = 0

def f(x: Int) = x + y
```

( ) Yes
(X) No

[[For a given input value, `x`, we cannot know for sure what will be the output `f` since it depends on the value of `y`, which is a *mutable* variable and may be mutated by some other function elsewhere in the program.]]



Q4. 

Q4.a. What is the result of the following program?

```scala
val x = 0
def f(y: Int) = y + 1
val result = {
  val x = f(3)
  x * x
} + x
```

( ) 0
(X) 16
( )  32
( ) it does not terminate

Q4.b. Why should we care about writing functions that are "tail-recursive?"

( ) Recursion should be carried out on the tail, not the head.
( ) Recursion should be carried out on the head, not the tail.
(X) Non-tail-recursive functions may exhaust stack memory.
( ) Non-tail-recursive functions may exhaust heap memory.

Q5. Consider the following code.

```scala
def sq(x: Double): Option[Double] =
  if (x < 0) None
  else Some(Math.sqrt(x))

val list = List(-1.0, 4.0, 9.0)
```

Q5.a. To what does the expression `list.map(sq)` evaluate?

( ) `List(2.0, 3.0)`
(X) `List(None, Some(2.0), Some(3.0))`
( ) `Some(List(2.0, 3.0))`
( ) `None`
( ) none of the above


Q5.b. To what does the expression `list.flatMap(sq)` evaluate?

(X) `List(2.0, 3.0)`
( ) `List(None, Some(2.0), Some(3.0))`
( ) `Some(List(i, 2.0, 3.0))`
( ) `None`
( ) none of the above


Q6. **Introduction to Scala, Part II**.

The parts below refer to the following function

```scala
def test(x: Int, y: Int) = x * x
```

Q6.a. For the function call `test(2, 3)`, which evaluation strategy is  most efficient (takes the least number of steps)?

( ) call-by-value is more efficient
( ) call-by-name is more efficient
(X) call-by-value and call-by-name require the same number of steps
( ) the program does not terminate

[[In both cases we have to do one multiplication (`2 * 2`).]]

Q6.b. For the function call `test(3 + 4, 8)`, which evaluation strategy is most efficient?

(X) call-by-value is more efficient
( ) call-by-name is  more efficient
( ) call-by-value and call-by-name require the same number of steps
( ) the program does not terminate

[[Call-by-value performs one addition (`3 + 4`) and one multiplication (`7 * 7`), whereas call-by-name performs two additions and one multiplication (`(3 + 4) * (3 + 4)`).]]

Q6.c. For the function call `test(7, 2*4)`, which evaluation strategy is most efficient?

( ) call-by-value is more efficient
(X) call-by-name is more efficient
( ) call-by-value and call-by-name require the same number of steps
( ) the program does not terminate

[[Call-by-value performs two multiplications (`2 * 4` and `7 * 7`), whereas call-by-name performs just one multiplication (`7 * 7`).]]

Q6.d. For the function call `test(3+4, 2*4)` which evaluation strategy is most efficient?

( ) call-by-value is more efficient
( ) call-by-name is more efficient
(X) call-by-value and call-by-name require the same number of steps
( ) the program does not terminate

[[Call-by-value performs one addition (`3 + 4`) and two multiplications (`2 * 4` and `7 * 7`), and call-by-name performs two additions and one multiplication (`(3 + 4) * (3 + 4)`).]]
